Here I record some reminiscences of John Davies.  I will add things
from time to time as they occur to me.

I had the privilege of working with John Davies in the early 1990s
while at the Health and Safety Executive.  John was a PSO, at the then
Risk Assessment Section.  We worked on the same corridor and I would
often talk with him.

He would often sign himself as "jkwd", and I discovered that the "W"
stood for "Welwyn", as in Welwyn Garden City.  Mike Brinn used to call
him "welly davies".  I never found out what the "k" stood for.

He had beautiful handwriting, almost copper plate.  One day he came
into the common room and on the whiteboard wrote down a long equation
giving central moments for some distribution he was interested in.
While he wasn't looking, I erased a superscript "2" from the equation
and pretended to be studying it intensely.  When he came back I said
"John, shouldn't this be lambda _squared_?" and after a few minutes he
replied "You are absolutely right.  It only goes to show".  

John was an enthusiastic early adopter of latex which in the 1990s was
becoming the defacto standard for technical work.  This was before the
internet, and back then one had to install it from a large number of
floppy disks.  He mentioned to me once that he found Baskerville
typeface to be particularly attractive, and the package sticker uses
this for his initials.

He had his own office and he kept it absolutely immaculate.  He had a
beautiful leather-topped 4 foot by 8 foot wooden desk, which he kept
clear apart from a desk lamp, a telephone, and notepad.  Everyone else
on our corridor had a working environment cluttered with papers,
dockets, scanners, printers, and other detritus of the 1990s
environment.  One day his computer had problems and the IT support guy
came in to help.  He could not believe how badly organized John's
filesystem was, with many many files simply stored on the (windows)
desktop.  He muttered that John "might have a tidy office but he has
several terabytes of badly-organized files on his PC".

One of our research projects was the study of accidental releases of
liquified gases such as chlorine or LPG.  We were working with David
Webber who was an expert in this area.  David put a lot of effort in
to mentoring me during my PhD and I really appreciated it.  One day we
had a statistical problem and asked John for advice.  John's response
was very helpful.  After he left, David said "you know, that guy knows
an order of magnitude more statistics than anyone else I have ever
met".  I remember thinking that this was high praise indeed.

John was an enthusiastic exponent of APL and had a dedicated terminal
in his office.  I remember it looked like a church organ pulpit; the
keyboard included special APL symbols ("domino" and so on).  One day
he showed me how to calculate the exponential function using maybe
four symbols.

One day I asked him about heavily right-skewed data; this would have
been about 1991.  At the time we were interested in pollutants
undergoing atmospheric dispersion from a point source.
Concentration-time graphs are typically zero for much of the time,
interspersed with short-lived but very high concentration spikes.  He
said that the best way to deal with it was to use (what is now known
as) the Davies quantile function, which he wrote on the whiteboard.
This was before digital phones so I didn't get a photo of it.  Back
then I didn't really know what quantile function was, and this forced
me to do some investigating.
